all right here we're going to find the
area of a triangle formed by a couple
vectors so vector a has components to 0
1 vector B has components to negative 6
comma 4 so kind of the basic idea here
again so you know we've got some vector
a we have some vector B the idea again
is we want the area of the triangle
formed by those two vectors well to get
that what we're going to do is make a
little parallelogram so here's vector a
let's stick another vector a over there
there was B let's stick another vector B
over there to get the area of the
parallelogram my rough looking little
parallelogram the area of the
parallelogram it turns out is just going
to be the magnitude of a cross B so
that's going to be the area of the
entire region okay so well if we only
want the triangle that's half of that so
that tells us that the area of the
triangle so the area of the triangle is
just going to be the magnitude of a
cross B and then we'll have to divide
that by 2 so this is what we're going to
have to compute all right so the first
thing I'm going to do is find the cross
product a cross B so to do a cross B
we've got IJ K vector a has components
to 0 1 vector B has components to
negative 6 4 alright so if you imagine
covering up the AI column we'll be left
with 0 1 negative 6 and 4 will subtract
away the J component so J if we cover up
that column we're left with 2 1 2 4 so 2
1 2 4 and then we'll add to that our K
component so then we'll be left with 2 0
2 negative 6 so let's see 0 minus 4 is 0
we'll get minus negative
six so that will leave us with positive
6i - we'll have 2 times 4 which is 8
minus 2 so that'll leave us with a
negative 6 j and then it looks like we
have a negative 12 minus 0 so let's see
negative 12 minus 0 is just going to
leave us with well negative 12 times K
so it says the cross product has
components 6 comma negative 6 comma
negative 12 and now we'll just find the
magnitude of this so that says the
magnitude of a cross B well that's going
to be 6 squared plus negative 6 squared
plus negative 12 squared well let's see
6 squared is 36 negative 6 squared is
also 36 negative 12 squared will be 144
so let's see if we simplify that 144 I
guess plus 72 that's going to leave us
with let's see so that gets that will
leave us with a square root of what how
about 216 well again to find the area of
the triangle all we have to do is just
take this value again this is now the
area of the parallelogram so again the
area of the triangle
like we said we just take the magnitude
of the cross product which is the square
root of 216 and then we can divide that
simply by 2 so I guess the question is
this is simplify at all let's see so we
can always write 2 16 as 2 times I guess
108 we can always break down 108 a
little bit further so 108 we could write
that as 2 times 54 all over 254 we can
break down I guess a little bit further
as well let's see we have 2 times 2 so
this is a 4 so I'm going to bring that
out as a 2
the square root of 54 we can write that
as 27 times 2 I always just break things
down and evens so the twos we could
cancel well the square root of 27 times
2 we could really write that as 9 times
3 times 2 well the square root of 9 we
can take we can pull that out so the 9
will come out as a 3 we're left with 3
times 2 which I'm just going to multiply
back together so to me it looks like the
area of our triangle would equal 3 times
the square root of 6